Hi I Dominic Colenso and in this video I want to talk to you about how to start your pitch or presentation.

They say it takes about 7 seconds to make a first impression, and that does not mean to say that if you do things wrong, if you
mess things up you can't get it back, but what it does give us is a very clear window of opportunity to get our audience engaged on site and listening to what we have to say.

The most important thing to think about really is not to be boring. Now, what do I mean by that? I mean don't do what everyone else does. I've sat through so many presentations where I've listened to someone say "good afternoon everybody", or "Good evening everybody", or "Good morning everybody", "my name is Dominic I am from Inflow Training and I am here today to talk to you about..."

Well, if you are here today to talk to me about it, then just talk to me about it! Get on with it! Get in there and tell me the interesting stuff that's gonna get my attention. So what I recommend you to do is this: start with a bang.

I recommend that you do something a little bit different. I don't mean do anything crazy or pull a big stunt, what I do mean is start, instead of all that preamble, that good morning, good afternoon, start with a fact, with a figure, with a quote, with a story, maybe a bit a video or a bit of music, something that's gonna grab the audience's attention and really get them engaged. What we don't want them doing, and this is I see in so many speeches and presentations, is, while the speaker is starting to speak, the audience are spending their first couple of minutes finishing their emails or their text messages on their smartphones.

What we want people to do is to realise that you started and to start paying attention to what it is you are talking about.

As far as I am concerned that's the secret to starting your pitch or presentation. Start with a bang, grab your audience attention,
dispense with all the niceties and get them to engage with what you are saying straight away.